README.md, before:

# V2V Communication-Based On-Ramp Merging Simulation

## Summary of the Python Program
The provided Python program simulates the scenario of an on-ramp vehicle merging into mainline traffic using vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communication, as described in the research paper "Coordinated Merge Control Based on V2V Communication."

## How the Code Relates to the Paper

### Initialization
The program starts by defining the initial positions and speeds of the vehicles on the mainline and the on-ramp. This setup is a simplified version of the traffic scenario described in the paper.

### Speed Coordination
The `speed_coordination` function implements Equation (2) from the paper. This equation adjusts the acceleration of the on-ramp vehicle to match the average speed of the mainline traffic. The gain `k` is a control parameter.

### Gap Alignment
The `gap_alignment` function determines the positions of the virtual leader (VL) and virtual follower (VF) for the on-ramp vehicle. This is crucial for aligning the on-ramp vehicle with a gap in the mainline traffic.

### Virtual Platoon Control
The `virtual_platoon_control` function implements Equation (4) from the paper. Here, `v_k` is the desired speed of the on-ramp vehicle, `k_p` and `k_d` are control gains, and `h_d` is the desired time gap. This function ensures that the on-ramp vehicle adjusts its speed to maintain a safe distance within the virtual platoon.

### Sensor Noise Model
The `sensor_noise` function implements the Gauss-Markov noise model from Equations (6), (7), and (8). This simulates GPS position measurement errors, which affect the accuracy of vehicle position data used in the V2V communication.

### Simulation Loop
The main loop runs for a specified number of time steps, updating the positions and speeds of the vehicles at each step.
- The on-ramp vehicle first adjusts its speed using the speed coordination function.
- It then attempts to align with a gap in the mainline traffic using the gap alignment function.
- If a suitable gap is found, the on-ramp vehicle adjusts its speed to merge smoothly using the virtual platoon control function.
- The positions and speeds of the mainline vehicles are updated at each time step.
- The program prints the positions and speeds of all vehicles at each time step for debugging purposes.

## How It Relates to the Paper

### High-Fidelity Traffic Microsimulation
The program models the merging behavior of vehicles using high-fidelity microsimulation, similar to the approach described in the paper.

### V2V Communication
The core idea of using V2V communication for coordinating the merging of on-ramp vehicles with mainline traffic is implemented through the functions that manage speed coordination, gap alignment, and virtual platoon control.

-Based on the research paper: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7835933

Commit message:

Built the Vehicle and Simulation class. Syntax check is passed. Still needs to be debugged and add the plot_result() function.

README.md, after:

# V2V Communication-Based On-Ramp Merging Simulation

## Summary of the Python Program

The provided Python program simulates the scenario of an on-ramp vehicle merging into mainline traffic using vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communication, as described in the research paper "Coordinated Merge Control Based on V2V Communication."

## Road Layout

  <img src="Merge Road Layout.PNG" alt="Merge Road Layout." style="zoom:100%;" />

Merge vehicles should be merged in to the mainlane vehicles before the merge point (MP), which is (0,0). The length of the acceleration lane is 200 m based on the paper. We can initialize any number of mainlane and merge vehicles before the simulation as long as their relative time and space headway is larger than the safe values. We do not consider any lane change on the mainlane and mergelane, therefore we only have the rightmost lane in the mainlan traffic.

## How the Code Relates to the Paper

### Initialization

The program starts by defining the initial positions and speeds of the vehicles on the mainline and the on-ramp. This setup is a simplified version of the traffic scenario described in the paper.

### Speed Coordination

The `speed_coordination` function implements Equation (2) from the paper. This equation adjusts the acceleration of the on-ramp vehicle to match the average speed of the mainline traffic. The gain `k` is a control parameter.

### Gap Alignment

The `gap_alignment` function determines the positions of the virtual leader (VL) and virtual follower (VF) for the on-ramp vehicle. This is crucial for aligning the on-ramp vehicle with a gap in the mainline traffic.

### Virtual Platoon Control

The `virtual_platoon_control` function implements Equation (4) from the paper. Here, `v_k` is the desired speed of the on-ramp vehicle, `k_p` and `k_d` are control gains, and `h_d` is the desired time gap. This function ensures that the on-ramp vehicle adjusts its speed to maintain a safe distance within the virtual platoon.

### Sensor Noise Model

The `sensor_noise` function implements the Gauss-Markov noise model from Equations (6), (7), and (8). This simulates GPS position measurement errors, which affect the accuracy of vehicle position data used in the V2V communication.

### Simulation Loop

The main loop runs for a specified number of time steps, updating the positions and speeds of the vehicles at each step.

- The on-ramp vehicle first adjusts its speed using the speed coordination function.
- It then attempts to align with a gap in the mainline traffic using the gap alignment function.
- If a suitable gap is found, the on-ramp vehicle adjusts its speed to merge smoothly using the virtual platoon control function.
- The positions and speeds of the mainline vehicles are updated at each time step.
- The program prints the positions and speeds of all vehicles at each time step for debugging purposes.

## How It Relates to the Paper

### High-Fidelity Traffic Microsimulation

The program models the merging behavior of vehicles using high-fidelity microsimulation, similar to the approach described in the paper.

### V2V Communication

The core idea of using V2V communication for coordinating the merging of on-ramp vehicles with mainline traffic is implemented through the functions that manage speed coordination, gap alignment, and virtual platoon control.

-Based on the research paper: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7835933
